I am under the English Channel on a
train in one of the wonders of the
modern world the channel tongue and it's
easy to take the tunnel for granted
these days you just buy a ticket take
you somewhat ridiculous leopard print
suitcases not mine are on board the
drain and a couple of hours later you're
in Paris and it's easy to forget just
what a wonder this thing is and it's
easy to forget it was 200 years nearly
from the first proposal to put a train
under the English Channel as the train
back then it would have been horse-drawn
carriages lit by oil lamps to this
wonderful construction under the seabed
itself and here is something you might
not know those older schemes those
somewhat ridiculous Victorian schemes
some of them actually started in 1881
exploratory tunnels were made about a
mile out from the UK and help from
France
there was a tunnel started but then the
British press and politicians got cold
feet and thoughts might compromise on
national security and in the 1970s the
British government of the time was all
for building a tunnel but then they got
cold feet when the economy tanked but
just imagine we might have had a Channel
Tunnel a century earlier if it hadn't
been for Britain being worried about its
sovereignty although given there was
world war two and Hitler really could
have invaded through it perhaps they're
onto the right idea that is something
you might not